content/about/_index.md, before:

---
layout : "about"
title: "About me"
---

---
## Hi, everyone!  

I'm **Jiufeng** from China, you can also call me **FENG**! Welcome to my personal website. :D

Currently, I'm pursuing a master's degree in Data & Computer Science at [Heidelberg University](https://www.uni-heidelberg.de/en) and working as a Data Scientist intern at [Mercedes-Benz](https://www.mercedes-benz.com/en/). I'm fascinated by data science, machine learning, and AI, especially the advancements in Generative AI and Large Language Models. I'm also diving into the startup world with a small AI-focused team, aiming to create products that are truly valuable to people.

My journey in AI and machine learning spans over several years, with hands-on experience ranging from computer vision and neural network quantization to large-scale recommender systems and LLM applications. I have a solid foundation in both theoretical research and practical implementation, having published academic work and been granted invention patents in multimodal AI systems.

Outside of tech, I'm passionate about art, music, and film. I love watching films, and I have many beloved movie directors like [Kar Wai Wong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wong_Kar-wai), [Edward Yang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Yang), [Alfred Hitchcock](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_Hitchcock), [Hirokazu Kore-eda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hirokazu_Kore-eda), [Andrei Tarkovsky](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrei_Tarkovsky) and many others. Music is also close to my heart; I enjoy everything from classical to jazz, hip-hop, and rock & roll. [Frédéric Chopin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fr%C3%A9d%C3%A9ric_Chopin) and [Johann Sebastian Bach](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johann_Sebastian_Bach) are two of my all-time favorites, and their music has been a constant companion in my life.

When I'm not coding or working on projects, you'll often find me reading and doing sports — these are my favorite ways to unwind. Fitness is a big part of my life too; I've been a gym rat for almost three years now, and I also enjoy swimming, playing basketball, and hiking.

---

## Education

### **M.Sc. Data and Computer Science**
**Heidelberg University** | *October 2022 - August 2025*

Currently pursuing my master's degree with a focus on advanced machine learning, neural network optimization, and AI systems. My thesis research centers on **"Mix-Precision Stochastic Quantization of Activations during Backpropagation"** — a cutting-edge approach to optimizing deep neural networks for improved efficiency and performance.

**Key Coursework**: Advanced Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Natural Language Processing, Computer Vision, Statistical Learning Theory, High-Performance Computing

### **B.Sc. Computer Science**
**Northeastern University (China)** | *September 2016 - June 2020*

Graduated from a prestigious 211 & 985 project university (ESI Rank Top 1‰). My undergraduate thesis focused on **"Construction of a Multimodal Knowledge Graph for Fine-Grained Sentiment Analysis"** — pioneering work in combining multiple data modalities for enhanced AI understanding.

**Academic Achievements**: 
- **China Invention Patent (Granted)**: *Method for Constructing and Presenting a Multimodal Sentiment Knowledge Graph* — CN ZL202011319237.8, granted September 7, 2021; co-inventor
- Strong foundation in algorithms, data structures, machine learning, and software engineering

---

## Research & Technical Expertise

### **Core Areas of Expertise**
- **Neural Network Optimization**: Specializing in quantization techniques, mixed-precision training, and model compression
- **Large Language Models**: Hands-on experience with LLM deployment, fine-tuning, and RAG systems
- **Computer Vision**: From object detection and segmentation to large-scale image processing pipelines
- **Recommender Systems**: Production-grade recommender engines with deep learning architectures
- **MLOps & AI Infrastructure**: End-to-end ML pipelines, model serving, and scalable AI systems

### **Research Contributions**
- **Master's Thesis**: Advancing the field of neural network quantization with novel stochastic approaches for activation quantization during backpropagation
- **Patent Holder**: Innovative multimodal AI systems for sentiment analysis and knowledge graph construction
- **Industry Impact**: Deployed AI systems processing terabytes of data daily, serving millions of users across multiple markets

### **Technical Skills**
- **Languages**: Python, R, SQL, JavaScript, C++
- **ML/DL Frameworks**: PyTorch, TensorFlow, scikit-learn, Hugging Face, LangChain
- **Cloud & Infrastructure**: AWS, Azure, Databricks, Docker, Kubernetes
- **Data Engineering**: Kafka, Apache Spark, Delta Lake, MLflow, dbt
- **Specializations**: LLMs/GenAI, Computer Vision, Recommender Systems, Quantization, MLOps

---

### Tags on me:
[ENTJ](https://www.16personalities.com/entj-personality) | Gym | AI&ML | Movies | Music | Reading | Writing | Patents | Research
  
### CV
- [Download CV](/JiufengLi_CV.pdf)

### Research Interests
- **Neural Network Optimization**: Developing novel quantization techniques and efficient training methods for deep learning models
- **Generative AI & LLMs**: Advancing the capabilities and applications of large language models in real-world scenarios
- **Multimodal AI Systems**: Creating intelligent systems that can understand and process multiple types of data simultaneously
- **AI for Social Good**: Building AI applications that create meaningful value for people and society
- **MLOps & Scalable AI**: Designing robust, scalable infrastructure for deploying AI systems in production environments

### Hobbies
- **Film Enthusiast**: Deeply passionate about cinema, especially works by auteur directors like Kar Wai Wong, Edward Yang, and Alfred Hitchcock
- **Music Lover**: Eclectic taste spanning classical, jazz, hip-hop, and rock & roll — with Chopin and Bach as eternal favorites
- **Avid Reader**: Always have a book in hand, from technical literature to philosophy and fiction
- **Fitness Enthusiast**: Dedicated gym-goer for three years, also enjoy swimming, basketball, ping pong, and hiking
- **Travel & Photography**: Love exploring new places with my camera, capturing moments and cultures

### Goals & Aspirations
- **Academic**: Complete my master's thesis and contribute meaningful research to the AI community
- **Entrepreneurial**: Launch an AI startup that creates real value for people and pushes the boundaries of what's possible
- **Personal**: Travel to 25+ countries, experience diverse cultures, and continue learning from the world
- **Professional**: Become a leading expert in AI optimization and help shape the future of artificial intelligence

### Connect With Me
- **Email**: lijiufeng97 at gmail dot com
- **LinkedIn**: [Jiufeng Li](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jiufeng-li-520040273/)
- **GitHub**: [CoreSheep](https://github.com/CoreSheep)
- **Instagram**: [@jiufeng.li](https://www.instagram.com/jiufeng.li/)

---

*Always excited to connect with fellow researchers, entrepreneurs, and anyone passionate about AI, technology, or life in general. Feel free to reach out!* :D

Commit message:

Update education status: change from pursuing to graduated master's degree

content/about/_index.md, after:

---
layout : "about"
title: "About me"
---

---
## Hi, everyone!  

I'm **Jiufeng** from China, you can also call me **FENG**! Welcome to my personal website. :D

I have recently completed my master's degree in Data & Computer Science at [Heidelberg University](https://www.uni-heidelberg.de/en) and am currently working as a Data Scientist at [Mercedes-Benz](https://www.mercedes-benz.com/en/). I'm fascinated by data science, machine learning, and AI, especially the advancements in Generative AI and Large Language Models. I'm also diving into the startup world with a small AI-focused team, aiming to create products that are truly valuable to people.

My journey in AI and machine learning spans over several years, with hands-on experience ranging from computer vision and neural network quantization to large-scale recommender systems and LLM applications. I have a solid foundation in both theoretical research and practical implementation, having published academic work and been granted invention patents in multimodal AI systems.

Outside of tech, I'm passionate about art, music, and film. I love watching films, and I have many beloved movie directors like [Kar Wai Wong](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wong_Kar-wai), [Edward Yang](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Yang), [Alfred Hitchcock](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alfred_Hitchcock), [Hirokazu Kore-eda](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hirokazu_Kore-eda), [Andrei Tarkovsky](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrei_Tarkovsky) and many others. Music is also close to my heart; I enjoy everything from classical to jazz, hip-hop, and rock & roll. [Frédéric Chopin](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fr%C3%A9d%C3%A9ric_Chopin) and [Johann Sebastian Bach](https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Johann_Sebastian_Bach) are two of my all-time favorites, and their music has been a constant companion in my life.

When I'm not coding or working on projects, you'll often find me reading and doing sports — these are my favorite ways to unwind. Fitness is a big part of my life too; I've been a gym rat for almost three years now, and I also enjoy swimming, playing basketball, and hiking.

---

## Education

### **M.Sc. Data and Computer Science**
**Heidelberg University** | *October 2022 - August 2025*

Graduated with a master's degree focused on advanced machine learning, neural network optimization, and AI systems. My thesis research centered on **"Mix-Precision Stochastic Quantization of Activations during Backpropagation"** — a cutting-edge approach to optimizing deep neural networks for improved efficiency and performance.

**Key Coursework**: Advanced Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Natural Language Processing, Computer Vision, Statistical Learning Theory, High-Performance Computing

### **B.Sc. Computer Science**
**Northeastern University (China)** | *September 2016 - June 2020*

Graduated from a prestigious 211 & 985 project university (ESI Rank Top 1‰). My undergraduate thesis focused on **"Construction of a Multimodal Knowledge Graph for Fine-Grained Sentiment Analysis"** — pioneering work in combining multiple data modalities for enhanced AI understanding.

**Academic Achievements**: 
- **China Invention Patent (Granted)**: *Method for Constructing and Presenting a Multimodal Sentiment Knowledge Graph* — CN ZL202011319237.8, granted September 7, 2021; co-inventor
- Strong foundation in algorithms, data structures, machine learning, and software engineering

---

## Research & Technical Expertise

### **Core Areas of Expertise**
- **Neural Network Optimization**: Specializing in quantization techniques, mixed-precision training, and model compression
- **Large Language Models**: Hands-on experience with LLM deployment, fine-tuning, and RAG systems
- **Computer Vision**: From object detection and segmentation to large-scale image processing pipelines
- **Recommender Systems**: Production-grade recommender engines with deep learning architectures
- **MLOps & AI Infrastructure**: End-to-end ML pipelines, model serving, and scalable AI systems

### **Research Contributions**
- **Master's Thesis**: Advancing the field of neural network quantization with novel stochastic approaches for activation quantization during backpropagation
- **Patent Holder**: Innovative multimodal AI systems for sentiment analysis and knowledge graph construction
- **Industry Impact**: Deployed AI systems processing terabytes of data daily, serving millions of users across multiple markets

### **Technical Skills**
- **Languages**: Python, R, SQL, JavaScript, C++
- **ML/DL Frameworks**: PyTorch, TensorFlow, scikit-learn, Hugging Face, LangChain
- **Cloud & Infrastructure**: AWS, Azure, Databricks, Docker, Kubernetes
- **Data Engineering**: Kafka, Apache Spark, Delta Lake, MLflow, dbt
- **Specializations**: LLMs/GenAI, Computer Vision, Recommender Systems, Quantization, MLOps

---

### Tags on me:
[ENTJ](https://www.16personalities.com/entj-personality) | Gym | AI&ML | Movies | Music | Reading | Writing | Patents | Research
  
### CV
- [Download CV](/JiufengLi_CV.pdf)

### Research Interests
- **Neural Network Optimization**: Developing novel quantization techniques and efficient training methods for deep learning models
- **Generative AI & LLMs**: Advancing the capabilities and applications of large language models in real-world scenarios
- **Multimodal AI Systems**: Creating intelligent systems that can understand and process multiple types of data simultaneously
- **AI for Social Good**: Building AI applications that create meaningful value for people and society
- **MLOps & Scalable AI**: Designing robust, scalable infrastructure for deploying AI systems in production environments

### Hobbies
- **Film Enthusiast**: Deeply passionate about cinema, especially works by auteur directors like Kar Wai Wong, Edward Yang, and Alfred Hitchcock
- **Music Lover**: Eclectic taste spanning classical, jazz, hip-hop, and rock & roll — with Chopin and Bach as eternal favorites
- **Avid Reader**: Always have a book in hand, from technical literature to philosophy and fiction
- **Fitness Enthusiast**: Dedicated gym-goer for three years, also enjoy swimming, basketball, ping pong, and hiking
- **Travel & Photography**: Love exploring new places with my camera, capturing moments and cultures

### Goals & Aspirations
- **Professional**: Leverage my advanced AI education to drive innovation and become a leading expert in AI optimization
- **Entrepreneurial**: Launch an AI startup that creates real value for people and pushes the boundaries of what's possible
- **Personal**: Travel to 25+ countries, experience diverse cultures, and continue learning from the world
- **Impact**: Help shape the future of artificial intelligence and contribute to meaningful technological advancement

### Connect With Me
- **Email**: lijiufeng97 at gmail dot com
- **LinkedIn**: [Jiufeng Li](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jiufeng-li-520040273/)
- **GitHub**: [CoreSheep](https://github.com/CoreSheep)
- **Instagram**: [@jiufeng.li](https://www.instagram.com/jiufeng.li/)

---

*Always excited to connect with fellow researchers, entrepreneurs, and anyone passionate about AI, technology, or life in general. Feel free to reach out!* :D
